Add a sphinx docs structure for hosting gmt examples (#1)
GenericMappingTools/gmt-examples: docs/contributing.md

# Contributors Guide

This is a community driven project and everyone is welcome to contribute. The
project is hosted at the [gmt-examples GitHub repository](https://github.com/GenericMappingTools/gmt-examples).

The goal is to maintain a diverse community that's pleasant for everyone.
**Please be considerate and respectful of others**. Everyone must abide by our
[Code of Conduct](https://github.com/GenericMappingTools/gmt-examples/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
and we encourage all to read it carefully.

## Setting up your environment

The following dependencies are required for building the GMT examples pages:

- [gmt](https://docs.generic-mapping-tools.org/latest/)
- [myst-parser](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/)
- [sphinx_gmt](https://www.generic-mapping-tools.org/sphinx_gmt/latest/)
- [sphinx_rtd_theme](https://sphinx-rtd-theme.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installing.html)

> Two options for installing the dependencies are [pip](#pip-setup) and [conda](#conda-setup).

Reviewer: Might be worth mentioning here that sphinx and the other things needed to build the website are Python based and this is why Python is needed (and pip and conda are options).

Reviewer: Also mentioning that they'll need a working Python environment, however they want to set one up. Then we can say that if they don't know how to do that, installing [Miniforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge) and using the `conda` environment below is the easiest way to get everything setup. If they know what they're doing, then they can do whatever and avoid conda if desired.

I recommend miniforge here instead of Anaconda because it really only comes with the bare minimum and is (somewhat) independent from Anaconda Inc.

### Pip Setup

These instructions rely on the [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) package
installer, which can be used to install all dependencies except GMT.
Follow the [GMT Install Guide](https://github.com/GenericMappingTools/gmt/blob/master/INSTALL.md)
to install GMT. The Python dependencies can be installed using the
`requirements.txt` from the base of the repository (you may wish to setup a
[virtual environment](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#creating-a-virtual-environment) first):

Unix/macOS:
```
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Windows:
```
py -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Conda Setup

These instructions rely on the [conda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/) package
manager. Run the following from the base of the repository to create a new conda
environment from the `environment.yml` file:

```bash
conda env create
```

> Before building and testing the project, you have to activate the environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before building the documentation, you have to activate the environment
```

(you'll need to do this every time you start a new terminal):

```bash
conda activate gmt-examples
```

## Building the documentation

Once you have [setup your environment](#setting-up-your-environment), you can
build the documentation using:

```bash
    cd docs
    make html
```

## GMT Examples Overview

There are two main components to GMT examples project:

* Gallery examples, with source material in the `docs/examples/gallery/` folder.

> * Tutorial examples, with source material in the `docs/examples/tutorials/` folder.

Reviewer 2: Why not putting gallery and tutorial examples directly in the `docs` folder, i.e., `docs/gallery` and `docs/tutorials`.

[Sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/). Please refer to
[reStructuredText Cheatsheet](https://docs.generic-mapping-tools.org/latest/devdocs/rst-cheatsheet.html)
if you are new to reStructuredText.

## Contributing New Examples

The source files for the gallery examples and tutorials are `.rst` files in
`docs/examples/` that generate one or more figures using the
[sphinx_gmt](https://www.generic-mapping-tools.org/sphinx_gmt/latest/)
extension. To add a new gallery example or tutorial:

* If necessary, create a new sub-directory under `docs/examples/gallery/` for a
  gallery example section (e.g., `basemaps/` or `plot_embellishments/`).
* Create a new `.rst` file inside the appropriate sub-directory in
  `docs/examples/gallery/` or `docs/examples/tutorials/`.
* Add a descriptive title and as much explanation as necessary.
* Add hyperlinks to GMT modules using the `gmt-module` restructured text directive:

  ```bash
  :gmt-module:`grdview`
  ```

* Add hyperlinks to GMT module options by appending lower-case `#<option>` to
  the `gmt-module` argument:

  ```bash
  :gmt-module:`grdview#q`
  ```

* Add as many figures as needed using the `gmtplot` directive:

  ```bash
  .. gmtplot::

>      :language: bash

Reviewer 2: I think most examples (if not all) will in written in Bash. So, it makes sense to set the default language to "bash", so contributors don't have to specify the language option explicitly. The default language is set by the `highlight_language` setting in the conf.py, as mentioned in https://www.generic-mapping-tools.org/sphinx_gmt/latest/api/generated/sphinx_gmt.gmtplot.html#module-sphinx_gmt.gmtplot.

     gmt begin basemap png
        gmt basemap -B -Rg -JH5c
     gmt end show

  ```

  The figures will be placed after the source code in the built documentation
  by the `sphinx_gmt` extension.

* Add the file to the appropriate section in `docs/index.rst` using the following
  template:

  ```bash
    -  .. image:: _images/<file-name>-gmtplot-0.png
        :target: examples/gallery/<section>/<file-name>.html
        :width: 80%
        :align: center

     :doc:`examples/gallery/<section>/<file-name>`

>   ```

Reviewer 2: I think we need a better way to display the images on the landing page, similar to the Sphinx-Gallery extension, but it definitely needs more work, so it can be done in other RPs.

Author: Do you mean that the appearance should be made better or that we should figure out a way to automatically populate the index page based on the files in `docs/gallery` and `docs/tutorials`?
